---
layout: post
title:  "Status Updated and Other Projects"
date:   2009-08-13 23:29:00
---

So I've been a little lax in reporting in of late. My family and I went on
vacation and the last few weeks have been really hectic. But, I haven't been
sitting on my laurels the entire time, I have been working.

While on vacation I worked on my short story which has the working title of
"Big Time". Big Time is the story of a small time reporter, Theodore Chang, who
has big dreams and an attitude to match. It takes place in a far future world
where man has long since colonized the stars and has built a massive network of
portals to connect all the planets into one metaworld that they call Pangaea.
Theo gets a chance to do an exclusive interview of Gigacity's most famous
serial killer--the Portal Killer. The Portal Killer had hacked his way into the
portal network and was using it to invade the homes of the rich and famous
through their private portals, killing them in their sleep. That is, until he
was caught. But then, why do people keep dying? Big Time should be a lot of fun
and hopefully a bit surprising.

Zombie Stomp! is also moving forward. I plan to playtest the game at the end of
the month and hope to have the rules written before then so I can hand them out
at the playtest. I'll post them here first, of course. And the results of the
playtest afterwards too.

And I've also been working with my friend Benjamin on a joint venture to
produce web-based computer games for your enjoyment under the brand [Hard
Boiled Geek](http://hardboiledgeek.com/). There's isn't much at our site
yet--actually there's nothing--but Benjamin is working on that.

Our first game is a stock trading game called Corporate Raiders. If you want to
check out what the game has so far you can visit it at
[corporateraiders.hardboiledgeek.com](http://http://hardboiledgeek.com/). The
game is still pretty young right now.  We just have the mechanism to display
the status of the market. Our next step is to actually make the market move.
Then we can start adding features to buy and sell and start adding players.

Benajmin has a real knack for creating interesting companies for the fictitious
Atlantic Stock Exchange and reading the names and descriptions of these
companies can be a lot of fun. I encourage you to check it out and give us some
feedback on how it looks and the content. If we like you're feedback we might
even name a company after you! Once we get some more functionality up and
running we'll also want to start inviting some beta-test users. So if you're
interested drop me a line at guy@guyroyse.com.

So, while I haven't been posting much of what I've been working on, you can
probably see that I've been a busy little beaver. And, I'm have a lot of fun
making all this content, even if there isn't much for you to see at the moment.
But when it comes, all these irons I have in the fire will be done at once. And
won't that be fun!

