---
layout: post
title:  "Pairs of Ants Wager on Red and Black at AnCon"
date:   2009-10-16 12:12:00
---

Saw this update a while ago from Super Dave, a fellow gamer and geek from my
college days, and thought I would share.

Super Dave runs a regional gaming convention in North Eastern Ohio called
[AnCon](http://www.anothergamecon.com/). It is with great shame that I share
with you that I have never attended.  But, word on the street is that it's a
lot of fun. I'd like to try to get up there in 2010. It runs from May 21
through May 23 next year. That's a Friday, Saturday, Sunday so getting off of
work should be easy for all of us corporate wage slaves. The price is only $25
for the entire weekend if you
[pre-register](http://www.anothergamecon.com/fileadmin/pdf_store/AnCon2010Pre-reg05.pdf)
and apparently if you recruit others to come you'll get $5 for every person you
recruit. So, I would encourage you to check it out (and tell me about it so I
can claim my $5).

But the really interesting thing--at least to me right now--is that he has
released some PDF games. Sounds familiar, doesn't it? Well, looking at his
release dates, I think he might have stolen my idea! But, since PDF boards
games like Zombie Stomp! at part of what I do here, I thought you might be
interested even if he leap-frogged me. Curse you and you're free time Super
Dave!

The games are a dice game called [Pairs and
Wagers](http://www.anothergamecon.com/Downloads/Pairs_and_Wagers.pdf) which
looks like it would be a lot of fun with the family and [Ants: Red vs.
Black](http://www.anothergamecon.com/Downloads/Ants_Red_vs_Black.pdf), a board
game which looks a little more involved than what might interest my wife. Which
means it's right up my alley! I haven't play either of them yet--hell, I've
hardly had time to update the blog--but I plan to.

