---
layout: post
title:  "The Price of Admission"
date:   2009-09-05 11:14:00
---

Part of the point of my efforts to make games and stories online is to prove
what one can do with very little.  And by very little I mean a computer, the
Internet, and time.

The stuff I am doing on this site is done with free software. I am using
[GIMP](http://www.gimp.org/) to create the board for Zombie Stomp! I will use
[Open Office](http://www.openoffice.org/) to write the rules and generate the
PDF for Zombie Stomp!  [Corporate
Raiders](http://corporateraiders.hardboiledgeek.com/) is being developed using
[Eclipse](http://www.eclipse.org/) and [Java](http://java.sun.com/)--both of
which are free. The writing I am doing for Big Time is with [Open
Office](http://www.openoffice.org/)--again free. When I get around to
podcasting I plan to record with [Audacity](http://audacity.sourceforge.net/)
which is also free.

While I have a domain name and a hosting account, these items are not strictly
necessary. I could be at [guyroyse.blogspot.com](http://guyroyse.blogspot.com/)
instead of [guyroyse.com](http://guyroyse.com/) and I could host my images and
PDFs on free sites if I looked around.  I choose to have a domain name and
hosting because I have the resources to do so.  I have a day job that pays for
it.  It is a luxury.

The application hosting for [Corporate
Raiders](http://corporateraiders.hardboiledgeek.com/) and the other games that
I will create, either through [Hard Boiled Geek](http://hardboiledgeek.com/)
with Benjamin or on my own, are hosted with [Google App
Engine](http://code.google.com/appengine/) which is also free up until a
certain point. A point which we will be well below for some time.

This hardest part of doing this is the time.  Many folks have lots of that.
Many don't.  I fall into the latter category so I have chosen to sacrifice
television so that I can make these cool things and provide them to you.  That
frees up more time than anything else I could possibly do.

Folks, the point here is this--the price of admission is free.  There are no
barriers to entry.  Poor college students can do this.  Retired folks on fixed
incomes can do this.  My mom can do this.  Anybody can do this.  And I would
know because I am anybody.

You should do it too.

